<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<meta property="dc:creator" content="Kaarel Kaljurand"/>
<meta property="dc:language" content="EN"/>
<meta property="dc:description" content="Africa Trip. Overview"/>

<link rel="stylesheet" title="default" href="../../css/main.css" media="screen" type="text/css"/>

<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../js/toc.js"></script>

<title>Africa Trip. Overview</title>
</head>

<body onload="toc(1,1)">

<h1>Africa Trip. Overview</h1> 

<h2>Geography</h2>

<ul>
<li>Total distance overland: ~18000km</li>
<li>Most Southern point: The Cape of Good Hope</li>
</ul>

<h2>Weather</h2>

<ul>
<li>Very little rain:
<ul>
<li>in the montane forest towards the Mweka Gate,</li>
<li>1h long heavy rain in Entebbe,</li>
<li>a bit of rain in Uganda on the equator,</li>
<li>a 10-minute heavy rain on Kendwa beach, Zanzibar,</li>
<li>a couple of times in Cape Town</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Lowest temperature: Uhuru Peak Kilimanjaro, Ngorongoro Crater rim,
Uis, Cape Town</li>
<li>Highest temperature: ?</li>
</ul>

<h2>Clothing</h2>

<ul>
<li>Most used footwear: flip-flops, one pair broke in Malawi,
so bought another pair in Zambia</li>
<li>Most underused piece of clothing: snowboarding pants: worn only for 8 hours</li>
<li>Laundry (all by hand, i.e. no washing machine):
Heron Hotel, Jinja (service), Ruhengeri, Naivasha,
Kendwa, lake Kariba (service), Swakopmund (service).</li>
</ul>

<h2>Health</h2>

<p>Nobody fell ill with malaria or bilharzia (at least
during the trip).
Everybody experienced diarrhea. In Maun most of the people
were sick, some 4 even went to the doctor. But not so seriously
that activities had to be cancelled.</p>


<h2>Things</h2>

<ul>
<li>Things lost: TERE-shirt,
1 head torch, 1 book (State of Africa), pair of flip-flops</li>
<li>Things gained: 2 head torches (neither worked properly),
book Asimov "Foundation" (traded for a South Africa Lonely
Planet previously stolen from the truck), Kenya 8th grade "Science" textbook,
2 Kiswahili phrase books,
5 obsolete Zimbabwean dollars, many coins from different countries (incl. Australia),
2 paintings, several gifts e.g. Masai and Malawi woodcarvings (later given away),
pair of flip-flops</li>
<li>Things harmed: burned holes into the sleeves of a thick fleece</li>
</ul>

<h2>Other</h2>

<ul>
<li>Books read: State of Africa (about 10% completed), Kiterunner, Foundation (about 70%),
Kenya 8th grade Science textbook (about 20%), bits of several phrase books (e.g. Kiswahili),
bits of several travel books (e.g. Lonely Planet, Rough Guides)</li>
<li>Films seen: Joy Adamson Story, Hotel Rwanda, Harry Potter</li>
<li>Number of different animal species seen: approx. 100</li>
</ul>

<div class="footer">
Kaarel
</div>

</body>
</html>
