<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<meta property="dc:creator" content="Kaarel Kaljurand"/>
<meta property="dc:language" content="EN"/>

<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../js/jquery-1.3.2.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../js/jquery.tablesorter.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">$(document).ready(function() 
	{ 
		$("table").tablesorter(); 
	} 
);</script>


<link rel="stylesheet" title="default" href="../../css/main.css" media="screen" type="text/css"/>

<title>Words</title>
</head>

<body>


<h1>Words</h1> 

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Word</th>
<th>Meaning</th>
<th>Comment</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>seconds</td>
<td>Extra portion of food</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>chuck</td>
<td>throw</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>rosta</td>
<td>Rota (schedule) or rosta is a table that shows what times certain things are
going to happen and normally is referred to staffs shift times.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>wee-wee stop</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>tea towel</td>
<td>Thick towel capable of blocking the
heat from kettle of boiling water.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sumptious</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>quagmire</td>
<td>A difficult, precarious, or entrapping position.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>staple food</td>
<td>A food that can be stored for use throughout the year
(or produced fresh any time of the year) and forms the basis of a traditional diet.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>eggy bread /iggy bread/</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>jerrycan</td>
<td>A jerrycan or jerrican or jerry can or gerry can is a robust fuel container made from pressed steel.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>supper</td>
<td>dinner</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>curio shop</td>
<td>curiosity shop (?)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>U.S.</td>
<td>U.S. dollar</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Joburg</td>
<td>Johannesburg</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>k</td>
<td>kilometer</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>bottle store</td>
<td>liquer store</td>
<td>Word used in Namibia.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>charge</td>
<td>attack</td>
<td>As in "buffalo charges"</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>poaching</td>
<td>Illegal hunting</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>pride</td>
<td>group</td>
<td>As in "pride of lions"</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>bolt-on</td>
<td>Something added to a main product, service or plan as a smaller,
extra part or feature, especially in business.</td>
<td>As in "Bolt on safari to the Okavango Delta"</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sunny side up</td>
<td><em>Spiegelei</em></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>power point</td>
<td>electricity socket (?)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>thongs</td>
<td>flip-flops</td>
<td>Australian word for flip-flops.</td>
</tr>
<!--
<tr>
<td>esky</td>
<td>coolbox</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
-->
</tbody>
</table>

<pre>
ADD:

shebeen
boma
plakkies
moro, peri vii, nueva (?), oko hevo (?)
braai, koppje
</pre>

<div class="footer">
Kaarel. 2009-09-20
</div>


</body>
</html>
