<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<meta property="dc:creator" content="Kaarel Kaljurand"/>
<meta property="dc:language" content="EN"/>

<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../js/jquery-1.3.2.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../js/jquery.tablesorter.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">$(document).ready(function() 
	{ 
		$("table").tablesorter(); 
	} 
);</script>

<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../js/toc.js"></script>
<link rel="stylesheet" title="default" href="../../css/main.css" media="screen" type="text/css"/>

<title>Brazilian Portugese</title>
</head>

<body onload="toc(1, 1)">

<!--
nada: nothing
-->

<h1>Brazilian Portugese</h1> 

<h2>Introduction</h2>

<p>Brazilian Portugese is a language spoken in Brazil.</p>

<h2>Personal dictionary</h2>

<p>The dictionary is given roughly in temporal order
of getting to know these words (but it can be reordered
by clicking on the column headers).</p>

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Brazilian Portugese</th>
<th>English</th>
<th>Comment</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>coração</td>
<td>heart</td>
<td>The only Portugese word I knew before arriving to Brazil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>obrigado</td>
<td>thank you</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>saida</td>
<td>exit</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>cerveja</td>
<td>beer</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>saude</td>
<td>health (Saude! = Cheers!)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>por favor</td>
<td>please</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>frango</td>
<td>chicken</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>queijo (?)</td>
<td>cheese</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>paulista</td>
<td>person from São Paulo</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>peixe</td>
<td>fish</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>onibus</td>
<td>bus</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>rodovia'ria</td>
<td>bus station</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>hidrovia'ria</td>
<td>boat station (?)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>ferrovia'ria</td>
<td>railway station</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>rio</td>
<td>river</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Janeiro</td>
<td>January</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>carioca</td>
<td>person from Rio de Janeiro</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>pão</td>
<td>bread</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>açucar</td>
<td>sugar</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>o conto, por favor</td>
<td>the bill, please</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>collectivo</td>
<td>dorm</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>suco</td>
<td>juice</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>desculpe!</td>
<td>sorry! / excuse me!</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>ouro</td>
<td>gold</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>preto</td>
<td>black</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>igreja</td>
<td>church</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>orrario</td>
<td>?</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>bom dia!</td>
<td>good day!</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>boa tarde!</td>
<td>good afternoon!</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>nao</td>
<td>no</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sim</td>
<td>yes</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>hora (?)</td>
<td>hour</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>bacalhau</td>
<td>cod fish</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>ossuario (?)</td>
<td>?</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>muito</td>
<td>very / many (?)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>branco</td>
<td>white</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>falore (?)</td>
<td>to speak</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>pedra</td>
<td>stone</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>aqui</td>
<td>here</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>agora</td>
<td>now</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>mais tarde</td>
<td>later</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>pagare</td>
<td>to pay</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>caixa</td>
<td>cash</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>fechado</td>
<td>closed</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sanita'rio</td>
<td>WC</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>pousada</td>
<td>inn / hotel</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>velha</td>
<td>old</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>morro</td>
<td>?</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>baha (?)</td>
<td>bay</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Argélia</td>
<td>Algeria</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>peixe-boi</td>
<td>manatee</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>boa noite! (?)</td>
<td>good night!</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>pessoa (?)</td>
<td>person</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>amanha</td>
<td>tomorrow</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>hoja</td>
<td>today</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>lavar</td>
<td>wash (?)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>secar</td>
<td>dry (?)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>valete</td>
<td>folding (?), handling (?)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>vamos</td>
<td>to go</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>floresta</td>
<td>forest</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>varzea</td>
<td>forest flooded by white water</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>boto vermelho</td>
<td>dolphin red</td>
<td>pink dolphin. The word for "red" in Portugese is quite different
from "red" in related languages like Spanish, Italian, French.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>flutuante</td>
<td>floating house</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>cobra</td>
<td>snake</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


<h2>Sentences</h2>

<pre>
Posso deixar as malas na quatro ate' seis hora?
Can I leave the bags in the room till 6 o'clock?

Aviso. O museo de ex-votos esta' fechado por motivo de realização de obras.
??? The museum of ?? is closed today due to renovation (?)

Queria levantar todo dinheiro de esta cartão!
I would like to take out all the money from this card!

Um pão com frango e queijo, por favor!
A pie containing chicken and cheese, please!

Só Jesus Christo éo Unico Salvador
Only Jesus Christ is unique saviour (?)

Orgulho de ser Tefeense
???

Bem-vindos a Tefé
Welcome to Tefé
</pre>


<h2>Conversations</h2>

<p>The above dictionary enables one (g) to have simple conversations
with the locals. There are two types of locals: ???.</p>

<h3>Conversation with a bus ticket seller</h3>

<pre>
g: Bom dia (Boa tarde)
Dois bilethos para Salvador.
Quando tempo para Salvador?
</pre>

<div class="footer">
Kaarel. 2009-11-21 and later
</div>

</body>
</html>
