<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<meta property="dc:creator" content="Kaarel Kaljurand"/>
<meta property="dc:language" content="EN"/>
<meta property="dc:description" content="Multiple entry visa to Brazil for Estonian citizens."/>
<link rel="stylesheet" title="default" href="../../css/main.css" media="screen" type="text/css"/>
<title>Visa to Brazil</title>
</head>

<body>
<p>Tried to enter Brazil today but was rejected entry because according to the border
guard my visa expired 60 days after my first entry to Brazil (2009-11-14, S達o Paulo),
i.e. it expired in January the 13th.</p>

<p>I was a bit worried that something like this might happen: if there are visas then
there is always a danger that they are not interpreted as valid by the border guards.
It is unclear why Estonians need a visa to
Brazil anyway. While Brazilians can enter Estonia visa free, Estonians have to
arrange the visa before hand: study the visa regulation,
fill in the application form, disclose the information
of their financial situation and flight booking details, pay 18 EUR, and somehow deliver
their passport into Helsinki for stamping, and then get it back from there.</p>

<p>Minister Paet has been fighting this injustice but the light in the end of the tunnel
has started to show up only recently
(<a href="http://www.vm.ee/?q=et/node/8509">EL ja Brasiilia leppisid kokku viisavabaduses (07.10.2009)</a>).</p>

<p>We asked both the border guards and the consulate official to contact the embassy in Helsinki
or let us talk to their supervisor. The guards and officials refused. It's unclear why,
their job should be to help the travellers or at least try to find out where lies the source
of the problem (as there is clearly a problem). (Compare: every programmer is happy
when a bug report is filed against his software as this creates an opportunity to improve the
software.)</p>

<p>The consulate works only from Monday to Friday and visa applications are handled
between 8-11 in the morning. So we are stuck here at least until Monday (3 nights),
possibly until Tuesday. Fortunately our flight from S達o Paulo has a flexible date
i.e. we can always shift the date to later.</p>

<p>I have failed to contact the Brazilian Immigarion office.
And the consulate in Helsinki (they only work Mon-Fri to 13 Helsinki time).</p>

<p>My visa application letter made it very clear that my intention was to travel
in South America for at least 3 months, starting from Sao Paulo and returing to
Sao Paulo at least 3 months later. The application contained the paragraph:</p>

<blockquote>
<p>I would like to enter Brazil on the 9th of November 2009 at S達o Paulo, and travel as a
tourist for 3 weeks, mainly in the Amazon region. After that I would like to travel south
along the west coast of South America (in Equador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile, Argentina), and
then re-enter Brazil some time late January 2010, for another 1-2 week stay, mainly in Rio
de Janeiro. I would fly out again from S達o Paulo some time mid February.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>as well as a printout of the details of the flights into and out of Brazil
with difference between the dates 3 months.</p>

<p>Now we are wasting 3 days being stuck in Puerto Iguazu, spend money on the lodging,
spend additional 84 ARS on the visa. The honorary consul of Estonia in Brazil advised me to relax
and enjoy the nice weather in Puerto Iguazu, and to consider myself lucky that I can get
a new visa on Monday (if I can),
and that I certainly shouldn't complain to anybody as pissing off
the Brazilian border guards and consular officials could get me blacklisted. He seemed
like a nice guy but this advice was a bit weird. People should be thankful for bug reports.</p>

<p>Anyway I'm expecting an apology and some money to make up for the lost time and money.
If I'm not succesful then at least this text might help another Estonian traveller
to Brazil, who is going to enter Briazil multiple times while travelling for a longer period
in South America.</p>

<div class="footer">
Kaarel. 2010-03-26
</div>

</body>
</html>
