<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">

<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<meta property="dc:creator" content="Kaarel Kaljurand"/>
<meta property="dc:language" content="EN"/>

<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/toc.js"></script>

<link rel="stylesheet" title="default" href="../../css/main.css" media="screen" type="text/css"/>

<style type="text/css">
</style>

<title>Hanoi in one or three days</title>
</head>

<!--
<body onload="toc(1, 1)">
-->
<body>

<h1>Hanoi in one or three days</h1>

<div class="wip">Work in progress!</div>

<h2>Lonely Planet: Hanoi in One Day</h2>

<p>Begin with an early morning walk around the misty
<b>Hoan Kiem Lake</b>
before taking breakfast in an Old Quarter cafe. Then head over to
<b>Ho Chi Minh's Mausoleum</b>,
where you might be lucky enough
to catch the changing of the guard. Check out the surreal
<b>museum</b>
and the balancing act that is the <b>One Pillar Pagoda</b>
before moving on to the
<b>Temple of Literature</b>.
This is a great escape from the hustle and bustle of Hanoi and just opposite is
<b>KOTO</b>
on Van Mieu, an essential lunch stop as all proceeds from this great restaurant go
towards helping streetchildren. After lunch take in the cultural treasures of
<b>Fine Arts Museum</b> a five minute walk away. It's now time for a serious look
at the <b>Old Quarter</b>, browsing its buildings, shops, or bars to soak up the unique
atmosphare. If you haven't already be tempted, stop for a <em>bia hoi</em> (draught beer)
around sunset and watch Hanoi shift from work to play. Catch a performance of
the wonderful <b>water puppets</b> before enjoying a local meal and some beers in
a nearby P Bao Khanh.</p>

<p>(From Lonely Planet Vietnam 2009.)</p>

<h2>Us: Hanoi in Three Days</h2>

<h3>Day 1</h3>

<p>Sleep until 12 o'clock as the previous day's trip from
Phonsavan (Laos) to Hanoi was tireing. Walk to the lake,
eat, then do the Lonely Planet suggested walk in the Old Quarter.
This takes the whole day.</p>

<h3>Day 2</h3>

<p>Try to wake up early to catch the Tai Chi by the lake. Miss that.
Have breakfast at a lake side cafe. Take a taxi to the
<b>Ho Chi Minh's Mausoleum</b>. Catch the changing of the guard.
Check out the surreal
<b>museum</b>
and the balancing act that is the <b>One Pillar Pagoda</b>.
Go back to the hotel and sleep.
On the way back ask a knife sharpener to sharpen your Swiss Army knife.
Have dinner (meat spring rolls and beer)
and spend 1h watching the water puppet performance.
Observe the crazy Hanoi traffic on the way back to the hotel.</p>

<h3>Day 3</h3>

<p>Walk to the
<b>Temple of Literature</b>, and then walk back and relax in
your hotel room. In the evening go out to have dinner and talk to several tour
agencies about a 3-day-trip to the Halong Bay and the open bus ticket
to HCMC.</p>

<div class="footer">
Kaarel. 2010-07-13 and later
</div>

</body>
</html>
